# Android Studio Log Templates for Kotlin

Android Studio provides 'Live Templates' for inserting recurring code snippets like loops and log statements. For example, hitting TAB when entering `logd` will produce

```java
    Log.d(TAG, "divide: foo");
 ```
 
Not all templates are available for Kotlin, yet. To spare you the time of creating them, this repo provides the Kotlin version of the log templates.

# Usage

* Download [templates/settings.jar](/templates/settings.jar) and import it in Android Studio via 'File > Import Settings...'

OR

* Download [templates/AndroidLogKotlin.xml](/templates/AndroidLogKotlin.xml) and move it into Android Studio's `templates` directory (on Windows: C:\Users\John\\.AndroidStudio3.1\config\templates)

The templates will be available after restarting Android Studio.

# Overview

The following subsections show the main differences of Kotlin (below) compared to Java (above):
* No static members
* No trailing semicolon
* Usage of string templates

## logt - A static logtag with your current classname

```java
    private static final String TAG = "MainActivity";
```

```kotlin
    companion object {
        private const val TAG = "MainActivity"
    }
```

## logd - Log.d(TAG, String)

```java
    Log.d(TAG, "divide: foo");
```

```kotlin
    Log.d(TAG, "divide: foo")
```
    
## loge - Log.e(TAG, String, Exception)

```java
    Log.e(TAG, "divide: foo", e);
```

```kotlin
    Log.e(TAG, "divide: foo", e)
```

## logi - Log.i(TAG, String)

```java
    Log.i(TAG, "divide: foo");
```

```kotlin
    Log.i(TAG, "divide: foo")
```

## logm - Log method name and its arguments

```java
    Log.d(TAG, "divide() called with: a = [" + a + "], b = [" + b + "]");
```

```kotlin
    Log.d(TAG, "divide() called with: a = [$a], b = [$b]")
```

## logr - Log result of this method

```java
    Log.d(TAG, "divide() returned: " + result);
```

```kotlin
    Log.d(TAG, "divide() returned: $result")
```
    
## logw - Log.w(TAG, String, Exception)

```java
    Log.w(TAG, "divide: foo", e);
```

```kotlin
    Log.w(TAG, "divide: foo", e)
```
    
## wtf - Log.wtf(TAG, String, Exception)

```java
    Log.wtf(TAG, "divide: foo", e);
```

```kotlin
    Log.wtf(TAG, "divide: foo", e)
```
    
# Extended Log Templates

Personally, I use modified versions of the built-in templates that add the current thread name and an unambigious string ('###') to the log output. Printing the thread name proved to be invaluable when debugging multi-threaded apps. The string allows for easy filtering the log output generated by your app.

For example, for `logd` there is `logdt` that becomes

```kotlin
    Log.d(TAG, Thread.currentThread().name + " ### "
                + "divide: foo")
```

The resulting log entry looks something like this:

    05-11 21:48:30.338 4988-4988/com.example.test D/MainActivity: main ### divide: foo

The string is part of the message instead of the TAG because the latter is omitted from the log occasionally.

## Usage

* Download [extended_templates/settings.jar](/extended_templates/settings.jar) and import it in Android Studio via 'File > Import Settings...'

OR

* Download [extended_templates/AndroidLog.xml](/extended_templates/AndroidLog.xml) and [extended_templates/AndroidLogKotlin](/extended_templates/AndroidLogKotlin.xml) and move them into Android Studio's `templates` directory (on Windows: C:\Users\John\\.AndroidStudio3.1\config\templates)

**Note:** Any changes you've made to the Java log templates will get lost as the 'AndroidLog.xml' file is overwritten. You can prevent this by merging the XML files manually.

The templates will be available after restarting Android Studio.

# Modify Templates

One can edit these templates and add new ones in Android Studio under 'Settings > Editor > Live Templates'.

Also, you can restore the built-in templates there if any problems occur after the import.
